
=head1 NAME

Convert::Binary::C::Cached - Caching for Convert::Binary::C

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $$synopsis_cached.pl$$

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Convert::Binary::C::Cached simply adds caching capability to
Convert::Binary::C. You can use it in just the same way that
you would use Convert::Binary::C. The interface is exactly
the same.

To use the caching capability, you must pass the C<Cache> option
to the constructor. If you don't pass it, you will receive
an ordinary Convert::Binary::C object. The argument to
the C<Cache> option is the file that is used for caching
this object.

The caching algorithm automatically detects when the cache
file cannot be used and the original code has to be parsed.
In that case, the cache file is updated. An update of the
cache file can be triggered by one or more of the following
factors:

=over 2

=item *

The cache file doesn't exist, which is obvious.

=item *

The cache file is corrupt, i.e. cannot be parsed.

=item *

The object's configuration has changed.

=item *

The embedded code for a L<C<parse>|Convert::Binary::C/"parse"> method
call has changed.

=item *

At least one of the files that the object depends on
does not exist or has a different size or a different
modification or change timestamp.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

You cannot
call L<C<parse>|Convert::Binary::C/"parse"> or L<C<parse_file>|Convert::Binary::C/"parse_file"> more
that once when using a Convert::Binary::C::Cached object. This isn't
a big problem, as you usually don't call them multiple times.

If a dependency file changes, but the change affects neither
the size nor the timestamps of that file, the caching
algorithm cannot detect that an update is required.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002-2011 Marcus Holland-Moritz. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

See L<Convert::Binary::C>.

=cut

