
=head1 NAME

ccconfig - Get Convert::Binary::C configuration for a compiler

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ccconfig I<options> [-- compiler-options]

I<options>:

  -c
  --cc             compiler   compiler executable to test
                              default: auto-determined
  
  -o
  --output-file    file       output filename
                              default: output to stdout

  -f
  --output-format  format     output format
                              default: dumper

  --basename       name       basename of the temporary test files
                              default: _t_e_s_t

  -I
  --inc-path       path       manually set compiler include path

  --preprocess     rule       compiler rule for preprocessing
  --compile-obj    rule       compiler rule for compiling objects
  --compile-exe    rule       compiler rule for compiling executables

  --c-ext          ext        extension of C source files
  --pp-ext         ext        extension of preprocessor output files
  --obj-ext        ext        extension of object files
  --exe-ext        ext        extension of executable files

  --nodelete                  don't delete temporary files
  --norun                     don't try to run executables
  --quiet                     don't display anything
  --nostatus                  don't display status indicator
  
  --version                   print version number
  
  --debug                     debug mode

Placeholders allowed in compiler rules:

  %c    C source file
  %o    object file
  %e    executable file
  %i    preprocessor output file
  |     result is written to stdout (only at end of rule)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<ccconfig> will try to determine a usable configuration for
Convert::Binary::C from testing a compiler executable. It is not
necessary that the binaries generated by the compiler can be
executed, so C<ccconfig> can also be used for cross-compilers.

This tool is still experimental, and you should neither rely
on its output without checking, nor expect it to work in your
environment.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 C<--cc> compiler

This option allows you to explicitly specify a compiler
executable. This is especially useful if you don't want
to use your system compiler. If this options is not given,
C<ccconfig> tries to guess a compiler.

=head2 C<--output-file> file

Write Convert::Binary::C configuration to the specified
file. The default is to write the configuration to C<stdout>.

=head2 C<--output-format> format

Specify the output format of the Convert::Binary::C configuration.
The following formats are currently supported:

  dumper      Output a %config hash using Data::Dumper
  require     Output in a format suitable for require

The default is C<dumper>.

=head2 C<--basename> name

Allows you to change the base name of the temporary test files.
This is used along with the various C<-ext> options to build
the filenames of C source files, preprocessor output files,
object files and executables.

=head2 C<--inc-path> path

This option allows you to manually set the include path of the
compiler. This is useful if C<ccconfig> cannot determine the
include path automatically, most probably because it cannot
parse the preprocessor output. This option can be specified
more than once.

=head2 C<--preprocess> rule

Using this option, you can specify a I<rule> that C<ccconfig>
uses to run the compiler to get preprocessor output. Most
compilers write the preprocessor output to standard output
when given the C<-E> option, i.e.

  cc -E foo.c

will preprocess F<foo.c> to standard output. The corresponding
rule for C<ccconfig> would be:

  ccconfig --preprocess='-E %c |'

The <%c> will be replaced with the C source filename, and the
pipe symbol signals that the result will be written to standard
output.

The following placeholders can be used in C<ccconfig> rules:

  %c    C source file
  %o    object file
  %e    executable file
  %i    preprocessor output file

Usually, C<ccconfig> tries to figure out the correct rules on
its own.

=head2 C<--compile-obj> rule

Like C<--preprocess>, this option allows you to define a rule
for how to compile an object file. For most compilers, this rule
will be something like

  ccconfig --compile-obj='-c -o %o %c'

=head2 C<--compile-exe> rule

Like C<--preprocess>, this option allows you to define a rule
for how to compile an executable file. For most compilers, this
rule will be something like

  ccconfig --compile-exe='-o %e %c'

Note that it is sufficient to specify either C<--compile-obj>
or C<--compile-exe>. So if your compiler can only create object
files, that's just fine.

=head2 C<--c-ext>

This option is used along with C<--basename> to build the name
of a C source file. This is usually set to C<.c>.
 
=head2 C<--pp-ext>

This option is used along with C<--basename> to build the name
of a preprocessor output file.
 
=head2 C<--obj-ext>

This option is used along with C<--basename> to build the name
of an object file.
 
=head2 C<--exe-ext>

This option is used along with C<--basename> to build the name
of an executable file.
 
=head2 C<--nodelete>

Don't attempt to delete temporary files that have been created
by the compiler. Normally, C<ccconfig> will look for all files
with the same basename as the temporary test file and delete
them.

=head2 C<--norun>

You can specify this option if the executables generated
by your compiler cannot be run on your machine, i.e. if
you have a cross-compiler. However, C<ccconfig> will
automatically find out that it cannot run the executables.

When this option is set, a different set of algorithms is
used to determine a couple of configuration settings. These
algorithms are all based upon placing a special signature
in the object file. They are less reliable that the standard
algorithms, so you shouldn't use them unless you have to.

=head2 C<--quiet>

Don't display anything except for the final configuration.

=head2 C<--nostatus>

Hide the status indicator. Recommended if you want to
redirect the script output to a file:

  ccconfig --nostatus >config.pl 2>ccconfig.log

=head2 C<--version>

Writes the program name, version and path to standard
output.

=head2 C<--debug>

Generate tons of debug output. Don't use unless you know
what you're doing.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Normally, a simple

  ccconfig

without arguments is enough if you want the configuration for
your system compiler. While C<ccconfig> is running, it will
write lots of status information to C<stderr>. When it's done,
it will usually dump a Perl hash table to C<stdout> which can
be directly used as a configuration for Convert::Binary::C.

If you want the configuration for a different compiler,
or C<ccconfig> cannot determine your system compiler
automatically, use

  ccconfig -c gcc32

if your compiler's name is C<gcc32>.

If you want to pass additional options to the compiler, you
can do so after a double-dash on the command line:

  ccconfig -- -g -DDEBUGGING

or

  ccconfig -c gcc32 -- -ansi -fshort-enums

If you'd like to interface with the Perl core, you may find
a suitable configuration using something like:

  ccconfig --cc=`perl -MConfig -e 'print $Config{cc}'` \
           -- `perl -MConfig -e 'print $Config{ccflags}'`

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Marcus Holland-Moritz. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

See L<Convert::Binary::C>.

=cut
